Feature/block33 Java library package pipeline (#38)
devonfw/hangar: documentation/azure-devops/setup-library-package-pipeline.asciidoc

:toc: macro
toc::[]
:idprefix:
:idseparator: -

= Setting up a Java library package pipeline using Azure DevOps

In this section we will create a java library package pipeline to package a java library and upload to a maven feed in Azure DevOps. This pipeline will be configured in order to be triggered every time a commit to the Azure DevOps repository is done, regardless of which branch it is made on. *REVISAR NO SE CUANDO SE TRIGGEA* Also a PAT token and a maven feed will be created in Azure DevOps.

The creation of this pipeline will follow the project workflow, so a new branch named feature/library-package-pipeline will be created. The YAML file and the bash script for the pipeline will be pushed to it. Additionally, the settings.xml file will be pushed to allow java library connect to the maven feed to be uploaded.

Then, a Pull Request (PR) will be created in order to merge the new branch into the appropriate branch (provided in -b flag). The PR will be automatically merged if the repository policies are met. If the merge is not possible, either the PR URL will be shown as output, or it will be opened in your web browser if using -w flag.

> The script located at /scripts/pipelines/azure-devops/pipeline_generator.sh will automatically create this new branch, create a java library package pipeline based on a YAML template appropriate for the project programming language or framework, create the Pull Request, and if it is possible, merge this new branch into the specified branch.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The script located at `/scripts/pipelines/azure-devops/pipeline_generator.sh` will automatically create this new branch, create a java library package pipeline based on a YAML template appropriate for the project programming language or framework, create the Pull Request, and if it is possible, merge this new branch into the specified branch.
```

> The script located at `/scripts/pipelines/azure-devops/pipeline_generator.sh` will automatically create this new branch, create a java library package pipeline based on a YAML template appropriate for the project programming language or framework, create the Pull Request, and if it is possible, merge this new branch into the specified branch.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The script located at `/scripts/pipelines/azure-devops/pipeline_generator.sh` will automatically create this new branch, create a Java library package pipeline based on a YAML template appropriate for Maven, create the Maven feed, create a PAT token with permission to push to that feed, create the Pull Request, and if it is possible, merge this new branch into the specified branch.
```

== Prerequisites
* This script will commit and push the corresponding YAML template into your repository, so please be sure your local repository is up-to-date (i.e you have pulled the latest changes with `git pull`).

== Creating java library package pipeline usign provided script

=== Usage
```
./pipeline_generator.sh \
  -c <config file path> \
  -n <pipeline name> \
  -l <language or framework> \
  -d <project local path> \
  --build-pipeline-name <build pipeline name> \
  --quality-pipeline-name <quality pipeline name> \
  [-b <branch>] \
  [-w]
```

NOTE: The config file for the quality pipeline is located at `/scripts/pipelines/azure-devops/templates/library-package/library-package-pipeline.cfg`.

=== Flags

```
-c, --config-file              [Required] Configuration file containing pipeline definition.
-n, --pipeline-name            [Required] Name that will be set to the pipeline.

> -l, --language                 [Required, if dockerfile not set] Language or framework of the project.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
-l, --language                 [Required] Language or framework of the project.
```

-d, --local-directory          [Required] Local directory of your project (the path should always be using '/' and not '\').
    --build-pipeline-name      [Required] Build pipeline name.
    --quality-pipeline-name    [Required] Quality pipeline name.
-b, --target-branch                       Name of the branch to which the Pull Request will target. PR is not created if the flag is not provided.
-w                                        Open the Pull Request on the web browser if it cannot be automatically merged. Requires -b flag.
```

=== Examples

==== Java project
```

> ./pipeline_generator.sh -c ./templates/library-package/library-package-pipeline.cfg -n library-package-pipeline -l java -d C:/projects/libraryrepo --build-pipeline-name library-build-pipeline --quality-pipeline-name library-quality-pipeline

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
./pipeline_generator.sh -c ./templates/library-package/library-package-pipeline.cfg -n library-package-pipeline -l java -d C:/Users/$USERNAME/Desktop/java-library-project --build-pipeline-name java-library-build --quality-pipeline-name java-library-quality
```

```

== Connect library to maven feed

Go to Artifacts section in Azure DevOps and select the newly created maven feed by the script (default name is `maven-feed`). Then follow the link:https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/devops/artifacts/maven/pom-and-settings?view=azure-devops[Set up the Maven client] guide from Azure Devops official documentation to connect to the maven feed to be able to upload the library.

IMPORTANT: Ignore the settings.xml part as it is created by the script. Only pom.xml modification is needed.

> At this point you can execute the library package pipeline to upload the library to the maven feed.
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

Redundant.

== Appendix

=== Consume library from the main project

> Go to Azure Artifacts and click on the artifact that you want to install. Then copy the contents of the <dependency> element and paste it inside the <dependencies> element of your pom.xml file.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Go to Azure Artifacts and click on the artifact of the library. Then copy the contents of the <dependency> element and paste it inside the `<dependencies>` element of your `pom.xml` file.
```

> Then, follow again the link:https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/devops/artifacts/maven/pom-and-settings?view=azure-devops[Set up the Maven client] guide to connect the main project to the maven feed to be able to consume the library.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Then, follow again the link:https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/devops/artifacts/maven/pom-and-settings?view=azure-devops[Set up the Maven client] guide to connect the main project to the Maven feed to be able to consume the library.
```
